---
slug: IoV202305
title: 车联网相关论文笔记（2023年5月）
authors: [PangLuo]
# tags: [Edge Computing, Offloading, Vehicles]
---


# 第一周



## 001  A coordinated control to improve performance for a building cluster with energy storage, electric vehicles, and energy sharing considered

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2020.114983



This article is about a study that proposes a coordinated control approach for optimizing the performance of building complexes with energy storage, electric vehicles and energy sharing.This study proposes a coordinated control approach to optimize the performance of a building complex with energy storage, electric vehicles, and energy sharing. The study first develops an electric vehicle charging and discharging model, then based on predicted electricity demand and renewable energy generation data for the next 24 hours, the coordinated control first considers the entire complex as an "integrated" building and uses a genetic algorithm to optimize its operation and the charging and discharging of electric vehicles. Next, non-linear planning is used to coordinate the operation of each building over the next 24 hours. For validation, the developed control has been tested on a real building complex in Ludvika, Sweden. The results of the study show that the developed control can increase the daily renewable self-use rate at the cluster level by 19% compared to the conventional control, while reducing the daily electricity bill by 36%.



## 002  An Improved SOC Control Strategy for Electric Vehicle Hybrid Energy Storage Systems

https://doi.org/10.3390/en13205297

This is an article on hybrid energy storage system for electric vehicles. The article proposes an optimized power distribution method using two isolated soft-switched symmetrical half-bridge bidirectional converters connecting a battery and a supercapacitor as a composite structure for the protection structure. The article mentions that hybrid energy storage system (HESS) is an effective method to improve the performance of electric vehicles and extend the battery life. In such systems, batteries and supercapacitors are connected in parallel to provide higher peak power and better energy management. The article proposes a novel HESS structure in which two isolated soft-switched symmetrical half-bridge bidirectional converters are used to connect the battery and the supercapacitor. This structure provides better protection and can be optimized for energy management through an improved energy distribution strategy based on SOC control. This strategy allows the supercapacitor to be charged and discharged at a peak current of about 4ibat and can be adapted to different types of load profiles. Experimental results show that the use of this HESS structure and energy allocation strategy can improve the acceleration performance of electric vehicles by about 50% and reduce energy losses by about 69% compared to the battery-only mode. This approach not only improves energy utilization, but also reduces battery aging effects.







# 第二周



## 003 Adaptive DE Algorithm for Novel Energy Control Framework Based on Edge Computing in IIoT Applications

> DOI 10.1109/TII.2020.3007644

This is a paper on a novel energy control framework based on edge computing for industrial IoT applications. The paper proposes an efficient energy control framework to reduce energy waste and increase benefits for industrial users through edge computing. For this purpose, battery storage systems are used to store energy to ensure supply stability and power quality. With this framework, the optimal load pattern and the corresponding storage capacity of the battery storage system can be obtained based on historical load data from energy markets and industrial users. However, calculating these requires consideration of trade-offs between equipment costs, time-of-use tariffs, operating costs, and other relevant factors, which would be an NP-hard problem. To address this challenge, the authors also propose an adaptive hybrid differential evolutionary algorithm with a novel variational strategy. The experimental results show that the proposed algorithm and framework have good results.





## 004  Secure and Efficient Vehicle-to-Grid Energy Trading in Cyber Physical Systems: Integration of Blockchain and Edge Computing

This is an academic paper on vehicle-to-grid (V2G) energy trading. The article proposes a secure and efficient framework for V2G energy transactions by integrating blockchain, contract theory, and edge computing. First, the article develops a secure energy trading mechanism based on a federated blockchain. Then, an efficient incentive mechanism based on contract theory is proposed considering the information asymmetry. Next, edge computing is introduced to improve the success probability of block creation. Finally, the performance of the proposed framework is verified by numerical results and theoretical analysis. In summary, this paper investigates how to integrate blockchain, contract theory, and edge computing to achieve security and efficiency in V2G energy transactions.





# 第三周



## 005 Energy Efficient Task Caching and Offloading for Mobile Edge Computing



This paper investigates task caching and offloading in mobile edge computing. The authors first present task caching on edge clouds, which is the first study of task caching in mobile edge computing. The article further investigates task caching and offloading policies that determine which tasks should be cached and how many tasks should be offloaded. The goal is to minimize the total energy consumption of mobile devices while satisfying user latency requirements. The authors formulate this problem as a mixed-integer nonlinear programming problem and propose an efficient algorithm to solve it. Simulation results show that the proposed scheme in this paper has a lower energy cost compared to other schemes. Future work will consider multiple edge cloud task caching and offloading strategies. The experimental results show that the energy cost of mobile devices can be effectively reduced by rational deployment of cache location and task offloading.



